A. General information

Every engineering school in Canada is reviewed by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board
(CEAB) to ensure programs meet the requirements for educating well-prepared engineers.

As part of this process, we require all fourth-year students to complete the following survey on
engineering competencies developed to date. The results of this survey will applied to the further
development and improvement of your engineering program.

B. Engineering Competencies

For each statement below, please indicate how confident you are that you have the capability to perform
each task listed below, if you were to enter the workforce today. Please check one response for each statement:
from 0% (have no confidence) to 100% (have total confidence).

How confident are you in your ability to:

1. Apply your engineering knowledge and skills to solve a real-world problem.
2. Apply an appropriate engineering technique or tool to accomplish a task.
3. Get team members to make personal commitments to deliver what they had agreed to do for a project.
4. Identify the interactions that an engineering project has with the economic, social, health, safety, legal, and cultural aspects of society.
5. Recognize your strengths and weaknesses when working on a specific problem.
6. Adapt or extend an engineering technique to accomplish a complex task.
7. Generate a working hypothesis and a strategy to test it.
8. Review your team’s strengths and weaknesses and tell others where the team might need help.
9. Identify processes in your project to ensure protection of the public and the public interest.
10. Use your technical knowledge to participate in a design discussion.
11. Describe a well-known experiment that proved an important scientific law.
12. Help two project team members with a strong and emotional disagreement resolve their differences.
13. Synthesize information to reach conclusions that are supported by data and needs.
14. Analyze and interpret data.
15. Identify the regulatory policies that pertain to a project that you are working on.
16. Make assumptions that successfully simplify a complex problem to make it easier to work with.
17. Apply project cost management principles to ensure that a project is completed within budget.
18. Admit when you have made a mistake.
19. Deliver a clear and organized formal presentation to a group of professionals.
20. Use mathematics to describe and solve engineering problems.
21. After solving a problem, evaluate your initial assumptions to see if they need to be changed.
22. Interpret a formal technical drawing in your engineering discipline.
23. Identify the best approach that is suited to your learning style.
24. Test a design solution to determine if it meets its specified needs.
25. Describe the limitations of various engineering tools and choose the best one to accomplish a task.
26. Use various written styles to communicate complex engineering concepts to your colleagues.
27. Apply technical, social, and environmental criteria to guide trade-offs between design alternatives.
28. Collect and interpret customer needs for a project you were given.
29. Analyze the trade-offs between alternative design approaches and select the one that is best for your project.
30. Prepare a sketch of a design concept that is understood by your colleagues.
31. Identify and plan for risks in an engineering project.
32. Use technical literature or other information sources to fill a gap in your knowledge.
33. Work with others to establish project objectives when different project tasks must be completed.
34. Incorporate sustainability considerations in project decision making.
35. At the start of a project, identify all the roles and responsibilities that your team will need to complete it.
36. Identify an ethical dilemma when it occurs in a project.
37. Analyze opposing positions on an issue and make a judgement based on the evidence.
38. Identify your professional responsibilities within a large engineering project.
